# 53. Number of times a number appears in a sorted array

## Question link

[Niuke.com](https://www.nowcoder.com/practice/70610bf967994b22bb1c26f9ae901fa2?tpId=13&tqId=11190&tPage=1&rp=1&ru=/ta/coding-interviews&qru=/ta/coding-interviews/question-ranking&from=cyc_github)

## Title description

```html
Input:
nums = 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4, 6
K = 3

Output:
4
```

## Problem-solving ideas

As long as we can find the first and last positions of a given number k in the sorted array, we can know the number of times the number appears.

First consider how to find the first position of a number in an ordered array. The normal binary search is as follows. After finding the given element k, the current index subscript is returned immediately.

```java
public int binarySearch(int[] nums, int K) {
    int l = 0, h = nums.length - 1;
    while (l <= h) {
        int m = l + (h - l) / 2;
        if (nums[m] == K) {
            return m;
        } else if (nums[m] > K) {
            h = m - 1;
        } else {
            l = m + 1;
        }
    }
    return -1;
}
```

But when searching for the first position, you should continue to search forward after finding the element. That is, when nums[m]\>=k, continue searching in the left interval, and the left interval should contain m positions.

```java
private int binarySearch(int[] nums, int K) {
    int l = 0, h = nums.length;
    while (l < h) {
        int m = l + (h - l) / 2;
        if (nums[m] >= K)
            h = m;
        else
            l = m + 1;
    }
    return l;
}
```

Finding the last position can be converted into finding the first position of k+1 and moving one position forward.

```java
public int GetNumberOfK(int[] nums, int K) {
    int first = binarySearch(nums, K);
    int last = binarySearch(nums, K + 1);
    return (first == nums.length || nums[first] != K) ? 0 : last - first;
}
```

It should be noted that in the binarySearch method implemented above to find the first position, the initial value of h is nums.length, not nums.length - 1. Let’s look at the following example first:

```
nums = [2,2], k = 2
```

If h takes the value nums.length - 1, then binarySearch(nums, k + 1) - 1 = 1 - 1 = 0 when looking for the last position. This is because binarySearch will only return values ​​in the range [0, nums.length - 1]. For binarySearch([2,2], 3), we want to return the position where 3 is inserted into nums, which is one position after the last position of the array, that is, nums.length. So we need to set h to nums.length, so that the range returned by binarySearch is larger and can cover the case where k is greater than the last element of nums.
