# System design basics
<!-- GFM-TOC -->
*[System Design Basics](#SystemDesignBasics)
    * [一、PERFORMANCE](#一PERFORMANCE)
    * [2. Scalability](#二scalability)
    * [三、Extensibility](#三Extensibility)
    *[IV.AVAILABILITY](#四AVAILABILITY)
    * [五、security](#五security)
    * [References](#references)
<!-- GFM-TOC -->


## 1. Performance

### Performance indicators

#### 1. Response time

Refers to the time it takes for a request to be sent to receive a response.

When testing response times, it is common to repeat requests and then calculate the average response time.

#### 2. Throughput

Refers to the number of requests that the system can handle per unit time, usually measured by the number of requests per second.

#### 3. Number of concurrent users

Refers to the number of concurrent user requests that the system can handle at the same time.

In a system without concurrency, requests are executed sequentially, and response time is the reciprocal of throughput. For example, if the system supports a throughput of 100 req/s, the average response time should be 0.01s.

Current large-scale systems support multi-threading to handle concurrent requests. Multi-threading can improve throughput and shorten response time for two main reasons:

- Multiple CPUs
- IO waiting time

Using methods such as IO multiplexing, the system does not need to be blocked while waiting for an IO operation to complete and can handle other requests. By utilizing this waiting time, CPU utilization is greatly improved.

The higher the number of concurrent users, the better, because if the number of concurrent users is too high, the system will not have time to process so many requests, causing too many requests to wait, and the response time will be greatly improved.

### Performance optimization

#### 1. Cluster

Form multiple servers into a cluster and use load balancing to forward requests to the cluster to avoid performance degradation caused by excessive load pressure on a single server.

#### 2. Caching

Caching can improve performance for the following reasons:

- Cache data is usually located in a medium such as memory, which is particularly fast for read operations;
- Cached data can be located geographically close to the user;
- Calculation results can be cached to avoid repeated calculations.

#### 3. Asynchronous

Some processes can convert operations into messages, send the message to the message queue and return immediately, and then the operation will be processed asynchronously.

## 2. Scalability

It refers to continuously adding servers to the cluster to alleviate the rising pressure of concurrent user access and the growing demand for data storage.

### Scalability and performance

If the system has performance issues, then individual user requests will always be slow;

If the system has scalability issues, then a single user's request may be fast, but the system will be slow if the number of concurrency is high.

### Implement scalability

As long as the
application server does not have state, it is easy to add new servers to the cluster through the load balancer.

The scalability of relational databases is achieved through Sharding, which distributes data to different nodes according to certain rules, thereby solving the storage space limitation of a single storage server.

For non-relational databases, they are born for massive data and support scalability particularly well.

## 3. Extensibility

It means that adding new functions will have no impact on other applications of the existing system, which requires different applications to have low coupling characteristics.

There are two main ways to achieve scalability:

- Use message queues for decoupling, and applications communicate through message passing;
- Use distributed services to separate business and reusable services, and businesses use distributed service frameworks to call reusable services. Newly added products can implement business logic by calling reusable services and have no impact on other products.

## 4. Availability

### Redundant

The main means to ensure high availability is to use redundancy. When a server fails, other servers are requested.

Application server redundancy is relatively easy to implement. As long as the application server has no state, when an application server fails, the load balancer will forward the original user request of the application server to another application server without any impact on the user.

The redundancy of storage servers needs to be achieved using master-slave replication. When the master server fails, the slave server needs to be promoted to the master server. This process is called switchover.

### Monitoring

Monitor system load information such as CPU, memory, disk, and network, and notify operation and maintenance personnel when a certain information reaches a certain threshold, so that problems can be discovered in time before a system failure occurs.

### Service downgrade

Service degradation is when the system actively shuts down some functions in order to cope with a large number of requests, thereby ensuring that core functions are available.

## 5. Security

The system is required to have reliable countermeasures against various attack methods.

## References

- Large website technical architecture: core principles and case analysis
